We're managing some Angular information globally in Angular, for the back-end I want to do the same.
Now here, we can't use that environment file because that is really just for the Angular project, the back-end
has no access to this because the CLI doesn't manage this back-end code,
I just put it into one project so that we can easily switch files,
they're not connected but we can implement something comparable for the back-end. During development, we
can use a feature called Node environment variables.
NodeJS has this feature built-in and pretty much all hosting providers for NodeJS applications offer
a feature which allows us to inject global variables into our running Node program.
Now here for the local development, we can also fake this by reconfiguring Nodemon, the tools we're using
to start the Node server here. For that we add a new file, nodemon.json to set up some global
configuration and there, we add a javascript object with a key named env which has to be enclosed in
quotation marks because it's JSON notation and that key now can hold some global environment variables
that will be injected into our running Node app
and again, we will set that on the server through the hosting provider which hosts our app, here for development,
we're doing it with Nodemon
since this kind of is our hosting provider here.
So now we have that env key here,
it holds an object and in there, you can set up your global environment variables for your Node express app.
And here I want to have my Mongo Atlas password,
so for that hosted Mongo database and that should be the password you use in the app.js file, this
one.
Let's cut it and let's add it to nodemon.json
here as a value, also enclosed between double quotation marks.
I also want to use my jwt_key or want to store it here, with that I mean that secret key which I'm using,
for example in user.js, this one, let's cut it here
and let's go back to nodemon.json and then add it here.
Now I got these two things stored globally for my back-end. Now if you've got more things to store, you
can of course do that here,
I'm happy with what I'm storing in my case,
now I need to inject them into my, well different parts of the app and injecting is super easy.
Let's start with the user.js file where we want to create a new token. Here
previously we had that secret stored,
now it's stored in that global environment file.
Now for NodeJS, these global variables are injected into the running Node process and there, we can
access them on a special object, the process object which holds an env variable which holds all the
injected environment variables.
So there, we will find the jwt_key variable because we defined that key in our nodemon.json config
here.
So we use process env jwt_key to get that jwt_key and I use that same code in the CheckAuth function
therefore where we also need that key.
And of course we don't just have that global key,
we also have that MongoDB password,
so in the app.js file where I need that password, there I will connect to MongoDB, the password
needs to be entered here and we can simply inject it by ending the string and starting a new one
and in between we add process.env. and then it was, let's have a look,
it was MONGO_ATLAS_PW,
let's grab that and let's access it here and now with that, we're storing this in a central place and we're
injecting it into our app.
Now with that if you save everything and you reload your app, it should still work as before
except for that it's not. If we go back to the server side log, we just need to restart that server side
because we changed the configuration of Nodemon,
now if we reload this, it works again.
If I logout, if I try logging in here, that's looking good.
If I create a new post here,
it's also looking good. If I then want to edit this post, don't change anything that's working,
add an exclamation mark, that is working
and if we delete it, that is also working.
So that's all working again,
we've got no errors here as far as I can tell
and now therefore we're using these globals to have a more convenient way of managing our URLs
and our global settings. We're now really prepared to not just use our app locally but to deploy it.